well I don't have people let's bail
again so tonight we've got a special
guest he's the guy running against Mitch
McConnell lost the feed here
all right my name is Mike Brewer and I'm
a obviously Democrat running against
Mitch McConnell here in Kentucky and I'm
a retired Marine lieutenant colonel and
I'm married to a retired Marine and
right now I'm a let's see I done a lot
of things started off as an artilleryman
in the Marine Corps served as a
provisional rifle commander and rifle
company commander and Mogadishu
92-93 during the Somali Civil War and
served as the plans in Korea from rain
forces Korea at mm - mm mm - I'm also an
educator taught for three years at the
University of California and also I'm a
substitute teacher here Lincoln County
Kentucky
and I'm a farmer my wife Linda and I
have been farming here in Kentucky for
the last 15 years so that's my story and
I'm sticking to it
all right okay so the one thing you're
not gonna have to do with this audience
is convince anybody that McConnell needs
to go so what
tell us about your platform where do you
differ from whom from McConnell let's
start there how about on everything
oxygen is good but that's probably even
debatable but you know the basis of my
platform man is this that I believe in
you know economic and social justice for
all and really the the founding fathers
nailed it when they talked about the
fact that we are that we're all equal in
the eyes of law
we all deserve protection under the law
and that the bound
t of our land our resources our wealth
our energy is something that we all hold
in common and that's that's been the the
basis of my platform for the very very
beginning I don't know if the Senate
Majority Leader actually believes in
that I think he's a guy who who believes
in accumulating power and wealth and he
doesn't give a crap about the
Constitution about the republic or about
the people of Kentucky I can I can
definitely see where you're coming from
on that one
when you say economic justice what does
that mean for the people of Kentucky
well you know man when I started out I
viewed economic and social justice as
like two discrete items and but the more
I thought about it and talked about it I
guess I kind of convinced myself but
they're so tightly linked that they're
kind of the the same thing but let's
talk about economic justice so Kentucky
and and you know probably the eight
Appalachian coal producing states and we
built the great cities of America we
built the railroads we built the cities
we built the bridges and we've been left
holding the bag
economically and environmentally too and
I don't know if your if your fans are
interested environmental issues but I
mean literally we are holding the back
on 200 years of first it was timber and
then it was coal and now the coals
running out it is sayonara and you know
I would not want to be a Republican
politician going out to coal country
good Harlan County and saying now we're
being called back boys because that's
not go over very well with people out in
Eastern Kentucky or and you know we've
got coal hills out on Western Kentucky -
mm-hmm
so the idea of from from those of us
outside or those of us who used to live
in Kentucky the idea of bringing social
justice to Kentucky seems like an uphill
battle
what is your what's your plan how are we
going to do this I definitely think
you've got the blue-collar workers you
you you have their attention but that
phrase social justice carries a lot of
baggage there so so what's the plan how
are you going to market it well you know
I don't know if its its marketing you
know I'd spent you know we've been
farming here for 15 years but you you it
takes a little bit of capital to farm
and so we've done work off the farm
obviously and for two years I was a
reporter in three years I was an editor
of a rural newspaper third-oldest here
in Kentucky and you know you learn how
to communicate your message to people
and I'm Who I am Who I am and so kind of
you know as a little scary on the
outside but kind of squishy on the
inside I had to you know learn how to
communicate to folks who were who would
read my weekly editorials and we learned
that you got to be you got to be right
but not like self-righteous and you got
to be patient and you can't make people
feel dumb for believing what they
believe and so when I talk about social
justice I mean it's it's as simple
things as looking at like okay we've
turned prisons into an industry in
Kentucky right in the last seven years
we've increased the number of women in
prison by three hundred percent you know
those are families without moms or
without sisters or daughters and
primarily African American and for
nonviolent crimes it's because you know
we have got the term prison and industry
in the same sentence you know just like
education and Industry shouldn't be in
the same sentence you know prisons
prisons are for prisons not for making
profits for people what we've created a
system here in Kentucky where a lot of
people are making a lot of money off of
our prisons and we're more than happy to
provide them clients to fill those
prisons up to the max
you know a lot of folks I run into say
well I you know I'm I'm fiscally
conservative right it's like all right
you're fiscally conservative explain to
me why someone who's committed a
non-violent crime maybe drug possession
or possession of marijuana why it's
worth the taxpayers 124 dollars a day
take that person away from their family
in their home we're talking twenty five
thousand dollars a year to keep them
locked up and give them no reentry into
into what you know whether it's it's in
rural kentucky or urban kentucky give
them know a smooth entry back into
society where they're just gonna
reoffended send it right back to prison
so we've created this self licking ice
cream cone that's just one example you
know of the prison system and you know
just ridiculous things like just today
in here in Kentucky the this the state
Senate passed a bill cutting all the
money into public libraries right all
right it may not be a big deal for
people but if you lit right if you live
in the country I mean the public library
is your internet service provider
McDonald's is your internet service
provider and so here we are looking at
the coronavirus and they're talking
about shutting down schools and the kids
needing to get you know do distance
learning to keenya other school year
perfect time to cut the school budget
you know those are social justice issues
whether you live in in Louisville or
Lexington or you live out here in
chicken bristle it hurts and that's what
I talk about I'm talking about social
justice make sense make sense so
McConnell has money
he's got backers he's got a lot of
people well not people he's got a lot of
companies throwing caches way how are
you gonna offset that well it's but it's
by talking I mean you know what I tell
people is that listen you know they say
how you gonna beat McConnell so you beat
him with the unrelenting truth right you
know the fact that we're that so he's
been Senate Majority Leader for a long
time he's been in Congress he and I
federal service the same year right one
of us is a multi right in 1984 one of us
is a Multi multi multi-millionaire and
the other is a freakin asparagus farmer
in Lincoln County Kentucky but you know
what man I made the right choice because
I got a I can sleep at night but how do
you beat him so I meet him with
unrelenting truth and you know I was
talking to a group of women Democrats
out in Estill County which is in eastern
Kotani Eastern Kentucky and I and they
asked the same question and so okay so
where were 7th and in diabetes we have
the fifth worst economy in the United
States third worst in cancer deaths and
you know we are we are like number one
and child abuse and number one and child
homelessness right here in Kentucky and
so when people say well how do you give
of the prestige of having the Senate
Majority Leader he hasn't done nothing
for Kentucky you know go out and ask
that question the coalfields and see
what people say and that's how you beat
him that sadly 70 days to the primary
and I got a lot of ground to cover but
we've been hitting it hard since since
July and we can close the deal for the
May 19th primary the dress that's gonna
break you from McConnell that may
surprise people break you from anybody
else are you breaking up a little bit
dude but I I think what you said was is
there things that separate me from
McConnell any hot-button issue on the
more controversial stuff
all right the controversial stuff yeah
obviously I mean there are some hot
button issues women's reproductive
rights big issue in Kentucky and also
and I got to tell you judging by that
3:03 shirt you're not gonna like this
one
but you know I am I have a firm backer
in universal background checks and you
know some of the red flag laws that are
included in the Violence Against Women
Act and those are kind of considered to
be hot-button
a hot-button issues here in Kentucky but
I tell you what I found man when you
tell people what you believe up front
you don't try to triangulate or ears or
you know give them some kind of long
shaggy dog story by your upbringing they
say well I disagree with you but at
least you didn't lie to me
now I know that's I know that's a low
bar oh you know but but I got to tell
you like I was talking to some farmers
up in Northern Kentucky and guy one of
the guys asked me with ours probe
pro-choice you know or pro-life and I
told him pro-choice and he kind of
slapped his hand down he said well I
disagree with you but at least you lie
to me so you got my phone I'm like all
right there's one you know right people
and you know even they disagree with you
they're like at least this guy's not me
you know I don't know how you feel about
that now I as far as the violence of
women Act I think that we've got there's
not just a we need to to have some
motion there we've got to close the hole
well you were charged with domestic
violence but it got knocked back to
assault so you don't lose your rights I
think we need no drugs that - that's a
huge huge loophole that always gets
ignored and domestic violence is a
really really good indicator of future
violence so now I'm definitely
pro-second amendment but I'm also not
insane I was like I'd like I'd like
people not to get killed you know but
yeah I could see being pro-choice being
a tough sell in Kentucky - but again I I
don't know that with the climate there
right now I don't know that that's gonna
be a make-or-break issue well the other
thing that you know McConnell is good at
is his parachute in some pork I mean
his wife is the Secretary of
Transportation so you know dropping off
sixty million dollars for bypass is no
problem and it happened it's happening
all over Kentucky yeah you want that
bridge built now you know you need that
bypass here you go here's fifteen
million dollars 20 million dollars up to
sixty million bucks but what people and
you gotta keep communicating this
carefully is that it's not his money you
know it's our money that he's he's he's
buying your votes back you know he's
buying your votes with your money so I
think people are onto his game you know
it there's been a couple busts you know
but for example I HAMP he got a great
deal of credit for ramming through the
legalization help but it's completely
backfired here I mean I can line up
farmers for you who've got a barn full
of hemp they can't sell and the only
people you know I've said holding the
bag before the only on the hook for this
are the farmers the processing companies
and them and the and their investors
they all got their money and you've got
farmers literally with barns full of
unsold hemp and they're gonna lose their
homes because hampson nontraditional
crop you can't get a typical farm loan
for it or farm insurance for it and if
no one buys your hemp you eat it
and so people mortgage their homes and
we're and we're talking about like
salt-of-the-earth Kentuckians farmers
have mortgaged their homes to go into
this new venture and they're out I mean
there's no next year for them it's not
like soybean or corn or or cows or
something they're done and so as a
farmer myself I could talk to them I
understand I've been through the process
and I think that I I think that I can
hit it home with them and point out the
fact that they're just being used so
it's a long road but I'm a patient guy
in Kentucky I guess another another
hot-button issue would be I mean the
thing is it's a decided issue really but
it's still something that gets talked
about is gay marriage is that something
you want to weight in on are you just
going to stand with what the law has
decided well I was way ahead of law as a
newspaper editor back in 2010 if this is
a long boring story man just give me the
high sign and I'll shut up but all right
so or so it was back when they're
reauthorizing Don't Ask Don't Tell and
so I'm editor of a rural weekly
newspaper and I wrote an editorial
called Don't Ask Don't Tell don't care
and basically based on my 40 plus years
of my wife and my experience knowing
plenty of gay people in the military and
I said listen no one of the military
gives a damn about this the only people
who really care about who you yeah okay
the only people who care who you sleep
with are preachers and politicians and
they only care because they think you
care so anyways I published his
editorial and and this is a very very
small very Baptists II kind of community
and I get a call the next morning
someone once talked about editorial and
lady says she's a self-identifies
there's a little old church lady from
Crab Orchard Kentucky wants to talk
about my editorial but here's what she
said man she said I read your editorial
I've thought about it and I prayed about
it and I realize you're right and if
you're okay I'm gonna copy it and take
it to Bible study on Monday and tell
everybody that you're right and I count
on that as a big victory and it kind of
reinforced the fact that listen you just
got to talk honestly and and with a you
know a sense of fairness the people of
Kentucky and they'll come on board they
have keen sense of fairness here you
know common sense may not have you know
degrees and things like that but they
pride themselves and being fair and
understanding other people and so yeah I
I got to tell you man
you know
I don't care who someone sleeps with I
don't care who they love and you know
what everybody I think these days knows
somebody who you know it's probably gay
lesbian transgendered or whatever and
you know I got to tell you and I don't
want to not gonna talk to in detail
specifics but a substitute teacher I had
my this past year I have my first two
trans students one a kindergartner and
you know so here I am leading these kids
off to the bathroom because you know
kindergarten you go about 20 times a day
but and the only person worried about
what was gonna happen next was me
because the kids just sorted themselves
out when the bathroom and no one said
nothing and they just went back and went
back to being themselves and and my fear
of telling that story is that some
self-righteous prick is gonna hunt down
that poor kid and run them out of the
school and and so what I don't care and
I think that overwhelmingly ultimately
everyone knows somebody who has a
different orientation than them and
other than a few hateful people out
there this is something that's kind of
gone past the point of being important
so here's a here's a question I always
ask everybody comes on the show if you
know there's all these people watch and
tell them how to change the world one
thing that an individual can do in their
community to make the world a better
place what do you got don't be a dick
[Laughter]
seriously update one thing about about
farming like the way we farm you get a
lot of time to reflect there's an awful
lot of time walk around picking crops by
hand like three four or five hours a day
and you know the worst thing you can do
is have a real destructive internal
dialogue going on you know it's the you
know when you're in the shower
reviewing the argument you're going yeah
should I set this you know what you know
they just just turning off that internal
dialogue for a while and opening your
ears and opening your minds and saying
alright where's this person coming from
and you know it just I mean I guess
you're asking me to reflect back on 58
years of of what I've learned in my life
about getting along but you know I
here's one thing is that at my age you
know people take a look at you say wow
you know you plus years in the military
combat veteran blah blah blah you know
expect me to be like real hard and
brutal but I got to tell you man I as
times gone my mind's opened up and I've
gotten you know able to listen to people
and really appreciate them just shut
that noise off my own head and listen to
what people are saying and yeah you
don't have to agree with them but you
don't have to hate them either they're
not the enemy and so yet I guess if you
want to ask me how to change the world
don't be a dick so I'm assuming I don't
know I'm assuming your your campaign is
self-funded and through the community do
you have any big donors lined up or
anything like that not a one
not a one all donations so far have been
from individuals but I'll tell you what
the lately things have actually improved
quite a bit
I mean to get started we sold off all
our excess farm equipment we sold all
the animals emptied out the bank
accounts what little there was in there
but I've had a whole bunch of people
come off Andrew Yang's campaign and
literally flooding here to Kentucky and
I told someone earlier today last week
had five grown men you know sleeping in
my two-bedroom farmhouse and had a
neighbor and a neighbor drive a leaky
old mobile home over here I had two poor
kids staying out there and so but it's
been
it's been a real shot in the arm and
they're better at fundraising and they
got a much bigger reach than I ever did
so yeah the last couple last two weeks
particularly have been very very good
but no packs no endorsements we've
gotten a handful of checks from
companies and we mailed them right back
so all of our donations are coming right
from individuals all right okay so on
that note give everybody your
information give everybody where they
can donate where they can find out more
about your platform where they can get
one of those cool shirts with the guy
throw in the flowers that's I'm not
supposed to show that is that it with
the Banksy yeah you know when I when I
initially had that show on people go oh
my god is he an Tifa I was like oh
you've missed the point but that's all
right so if anyone's interested they go
to Mike 4ky comm Mike fo rky calm and
you know obvious you know the usual
suspects donate but my issues page I
kind of spilled my guts back when I
launched back in July and just kind of
let it all hang out there this is a
one-shot deal
like I said no you know no triangulation
no focus grouping I just kind of spilled
it all back then and I'm sticking to it
on the hope that at least people will
appreciate honest you know honesty so
Mike 4ky comm and if they care to donate
which would be awesome act blue and they
can also reach us that site if they're
in Kentucky or they want to come
volunteer donate and the last thing I'll
say is if you like the message spread it
Facebook Twitter read you know retweet
this or repost this podcast if people
like it or hate it I don't know I don't
care go ahead and post the whole thing
and that really helps because you know
there's this exponential force of the
internet where all you got to do is tell
three three friends and it just blows
right out which I'm sure you know is
there anything else you want any other
information you want to get out any
other ideas you want to get across
before we wrap this up no but I just
say thank you for having me and thanks
for being a great host and and yeah this
is very kind people got no reason you
know they got no they don't owe me
nothing
but I think that even even even the most
conservative person America can look at
Mitch McConnell and say he is not good
for the Republic you know he and he
needs to go is he's got 30 he's at 35
years he's had his turn time to go and
I'm the guy to beat him so thank you so
much for having me and I in your you're
good host good questions and I'll come
back any time you want
all right all right well that's it for
this one and we will see all y'all later